=pod

=head1 NAME

The Perl Glossary

=head1 TERMS

=head2 Abigail

Abigail is an enigmatic Perl programmer who is quite fond of regular
expressions and obscure JAPHs.

=head2 ActivePerl

A commercial Perl distribution, primarily for Win32 architectures,
created, released and maintained by ActiveState,
http://www.activestate.com/.  See also C<cygwin>.

=head2 Apocalypses

These are articles on perl.com detailing the design of Perl 6.  Larry
Wall writes them, and each Apocalypse is designed to correspond with
a chapter in the Programming Perl book.  Each Apocalypse is followed
by an Exegesis.

=head2 blat

To write out an entire file in one step.

=head2 Camel book

Programming Perl published by O'Reilly & Associates, which has a camel
on the cover.  The first edition has a pink spine, and is known as
"the pink camel".   The second and third editions have a blue spine and are
known as "camel2" and "camel3".

=head2 CGI

The Common Gateway Interface for creating dynamic web pages.  CGI is a
general purpose interface that can be used with any programming
language, including Perl.  See also C<CGI.pm> and C<mod_perl>.

=head2 CGI.pm

Standard Perl module that handles HTML form interaction, written
by Lincoln Stein.   It is included in the standard Perl distribution.

=head2 clpm

comp.lang.perl.misc, a usenet newsgroup.

=head2 The Cookbook

The Perl Cookbook.  See also The Ram Book.

=head2 CPAN

The Comprehensive Perl Archive Network, modeled after CTAN, the
Comprehensive TeX Archive Network.  CPAN is a central repository for
core and third-party Perl software and modules.  See http://www.cpan.org/

=head2 CPAN.pm

A standard module for managing installation of modules from CPAN.  A
common way to use the CPAN module is by using the command C<perl -MCPAN
-e shell>, or using the C<cpan> script, if it is provided on
your system.

=head2 CPANPLUS

A more modern replacement for the CPAN Perl module, which provides
command-line access to the CPAN.

=head2 cygwin

A portability layer for Windows that provides many UNIX tools from the
GNU toolchain.  A very popular technique for installing Perl on Windows
systems.

=head2 DBD

A DataBase Driver for DBI.  The DBD provides the connection between a
particular database server product (e.g. Oracle) and the abstract
interface.  To change database products (e.g. from mysql to Oracle),
one simply uses a different DBD.

=head2 DBI

Perl's abstract DataBase Interface which supports any database product
with a database driver (DBD).

=head2 Exegesis

A detailed article on perl.com that explains an Apocalypse.  These
articles are written by Damian Conway, and go into extreme depth to
help us understand the why and how of Perl 6's design.

=head2 Golf

A semi-competitive game to rewrite a Perl program by using fewer
keystrokes.  Usually conducted online.

=head2 GPW

The German Perl Workshop.  See http://www.perlworkshop.de/

=head2 h2xs

A utility for creating a new Perl module, possibly interfacing with a
pre-existing C library.  See also C<Module::Build> and C<XS>.

=head2 Hip Owls Book

Mastering Regular Expressions, 2nd Ed, published by O'Reilly &
Associates.

=head2 HFB

Happy Fun Ball - Elaine Ashton.

=head2 Inline

Ingy dE<ouml>t Net's C<Inline> module for embedding foreign code in a
Perl program.  The most popular use of Inline is C<Inline::C>, which
provides a cleaner and simpler way to interface with C programs,
compared to h2xs or SWIG.

=head2 JAPH

[1] "Just another Perl hacker" - popularized by Randal L. Schwartz.

[2] A small Perl program that prints the phrase "Just Another Perl
Hacker" using some combination of possibly obscure Perl features.

=head2 Llama book

This is Learning Perl published by O'Reilly & Associates, which has a
llama on the cover.  The first edition has a pink spine, and is known
as "the pink llama". The second and third editions have a blue spine and
are known as "llama2" and "llama3".

=head2 LWP

Library for interfacing with the World Wide Web from Perl.  This
distribution provides many modules for interacting with HTTP, FTP, and
email.  Look for C<Bundle::LWP> on CPAN.

=head2 Mason

The C<HTML::Mason> module, a Perl framework for dynamic web development.
See http://www.masonhq.com/

=head2 mod_perl

The Apache server plug-in that embeds a perl in the web server for
super-fast performance and increased flexibility.

=head2 Nutty Camel

Perl in a Nutshell, published by O'Reilly and Associates.

=head2 NMS

A library of CGI programs designed to be easy replacements for
buggy programs available from Matt's Script Archive.  The NMS
programs are actively developed, work with standard Perl distributions
(no extra modules required), and are written to avoid standard
security bugs.  The programs that they replace have not been actively
developed since the mid 1990s and are well known for containing a
litany of security bugs.

=head2 O'Reilly book covers

In general, O'Reilly books have animals on the covers (although not
for Java or all Unix books).  The books are often referred to by the
animal on their cover.  If someone says something like "the Ram book",
he is referring to an O'Reilly book.

=head2 ORA

O'Reilly & Associates.

=head2 OSCON

Open Source Conference.  This conference encompasses many others,
including TPC, and is run by O'Reilly & Associates.

=head2 OSS

Open Source Software.  Perl is open source and is often mentioned in
connection with the OSS movement.

=head2 p5p

See perl5-porters.

=head2 PAR

A Perl Archive Toolkit.  This allows distribution and use of Perl
modules from a portable archive.

=head2 parrot

Parrot is a virtual machine used to efficiently execute bytecode
for interpreted languages - specifically, Perl 6.

=head2 PAUSE

Perl Authors Upload Server - how software gets into CPAN.  See
http://www.cpan.org/modules/04pause.html.

=head2 Perl

The language itself, as opposed to the interpreter, "perl", with a
lowercase "p".

=head2 perl

The program which interprets Perl and makes the computer do what it
says.

=head2 Perl4

A dead camel carcass.  This is the version of Perl that pre-dated the
current major release.  It should not be used for any new development.

=head2 perl5-porters

The mailing list for perl 5 developers.

=head2 perl6-internals

Mailing list for Perl6 and parrot code development.

=head2 perl6-language

A lively list for the discussion of the Perl 6 language design.  Not
for the faint of heart.

=head2 Perl5

The modern major release of Perl.

=head2 Perl6

A long-term project to reinvent the Perl language.  This project is
still in the early stages of development.

=head2 perlio

Perl's cross-platform I/O layer that replaces the paradoxically
non-standard stdio C interface.

=head2 perldoc

The C<perldoc> utility to view Perl documentation.  Also, the Perldoc
website for viewing Perl documentation, http://www.perldoc.com/

=head2 Perl Mongers

Perl Mongers is a world-wide organization devoted to the social and
technical nature of Perl.  Composed of geographically localized groups,
Perl Mongers brings Perl to the masses.  http://www.pm.org/

=head2 The Perl Review

An electronically published Perl magazine supported and developed by the
community.  http://www.theperlreview.com

=head2 pumpking

A Perl project coordinator

=head2 Ram book

This is The Perl Cookbook published by O'Reilly & Associates.

=head2 regex

A regular expression.

=head2 regexp

An alternate spelling of C<regex>.

=head2 slurp

To read in an entire file in one step.

=head2 SWIG

An interface for allowing Perl to use C/C++ libraries and code.

=head2 TMTOWTDI

There's More Than One Way To Do It - a major philosophy in the design
of Perl. Language constructs can be expressed in more than one way,
just as in natural language.

=head2 Topaz

An old, exploratory project by Chip Salzenberg to rewrite Perl in C++.
This project predates the Perl 6 project and is now dead.

=head2 TPC

The Perl Conference, hosted by O'Reilly & Associates.  It is held
concurrently with OSCON.

=head2 TPF

The Perl Foundation.  Coordinates a number of projects to further the
growth and development of the Perl community.  Such projects include
YAPC, Perl 6 and parrot, Perl Mongers, and PerlMonks.

=head2 TPI

The Perl Institute (now defunct).

=head2 TPJ

The Perl Journal.

=head2 TPR

The Perl Review.

=head2 TT

The Template Toolkit.

=head2 use Perl;

A Slash web site for Perl, maintained by Slash developer Chris
Nandor.  This web site is the center for Perl news and information,
as well as many online Journals (blogs) of people in the Perl
community.  http://use.perl.org

=head2 White Camel

An award given out by Perl Mongers for significant nontechnical
contribution to the Perl community.

=head2 XS

An interface for allowing Perl to use C/C++ libraries and code.

=head2 YAS

Yet Another Society, the umbrella organization that includes the
Perl Foundation, and YAPC events worldwide.  YAS is a 501(c)(3)
nonprofit organization in the USA.

=head2 YAPC

Yet Another Perl Conference, created by Kevin Lenzo as a low-cost,
less-lavish alternative to TPC.  There are several YAPC conferences held
each year.  These events are detailed at http://www.yapc.org/

=cut
